>> Mike North: So the best way to get to
know an editor is to actually work within
the context of a real project.
And we're gonna be using a repurposed
version of the same app that
was part of the PWA course.
If you took progressive web fundamentals,
also on front-end masters,
this will look familiar to you.
It has been stripped down and
simplified so
that it only goes as far
as we need it to go.
The general idea here is you can
add items to a shopping cart, and
someone's gonna do your grocery for you.
So there's a small database,
a small Node.js RESTful API,
and then a React UI,
like a browser based app on top of that.
So that's all within this project, and
when you run npm start,
that is all starting out.
In terms of the set of
technologies we're using,
I'm pleased to say we're basically
using the new releases of everything.
The React 16 beta,
that's what we're using today.
Webpack 3 to assemble our code together
and to make our browser distributable app.
We're running TypeScript 2.5,
which came out within the last month.
And then finally, on our back-end I've
gone through the trouble of taking what
use to be written with Express,
which is a very common library to use for
rendering JSON and HTML from Node.js app.
I've chosen to use Koa instead because
Koa's a little bit more complicated,
and I'll explain why I've
chosen to do it this way so.
So Express, it's been around for
a long time and
it works in a way that developers
expect it to work, right?
You get callbacks and
you can stack a bunch of
middlewares together, and nothing should
surprise developers, even if they haven't
been keeping up with the latest advances
in the JavaScript language standard.
One of the cool things about Koa is
it is based around generator functions and
async functions.
So this would throw most debuggers for
a little bit of a loop, this would be
a little confusing for most debuggers.
Simply because the code has to be
transformed into something else and
then debugged with the source maps.
So I've added this complexity
simply to show you that VS Code,
when you start debugging this back-end,
it will work exactly as you would expect.
It works exactly as you would
hope as opposed to kicking
out into this world of the hack for
the language feature and
having to step through that hack as
opposed to the code that you wrote.
You stay entirely in the world
of code that you wrote.
So I've introduced complexity
to demonstrate that
it can be handled with grace
when you use Visual Studio Code.
So to be clear, I don't think
there is really anything that
I'm showing you today where we'd
need all of these completely
bleeding edge versions of
these various libraries.
This should work with Webpack 2,
this should work with all
the versions of React.
I am just trying to show what
is possible with the absolute,
bleeding edge, most modern stuff.
The only thing you'll have to make sure
you are completely up to date with
is the editor itself.
You should have the most recent
release of Visual Studio Code.
And you can just run this check for
updates, this right here,
and it should tell you there are no
updates currently available.
So you may need to upgrade,
considering that last week
the new version was released.
So we will be using the absolute
most modern version.
So with that, you should've gone
through the read me to get set up.
We're gonna kind of get set up
together just to make sure
everyone's on the same page.
The first thing we're gonna do is
open up our integrated terminal.
So there is a terminal built
into Visual Studio Code.
And I tend to use a hot
key to get into it.
And that on a Mac is control and
then the backtick button.
So if I hit that,
I will see that this opens up here.
So that is another key binding that
should make your top ten list.
Control+backtick, it’s sort of
a nice like left hand thing,
I don’t know how to describe it, but
it is a comfortable reflex to memorize.
So in here, this will actually run
whatever our default terminal is.
And if you wanted to,
you could configure, you could say,
I wanna run ZSH whenever I'm opening
up this integrated terminal.
Despite the fact that by default,
like with terminal.app or something,
it is something else.
I don't really see the point
of doing that, I mean,
unless you have a really specific purpose.
You should probably keep
everything the same.
So you have the environment variables,
the same everything,
it just happens to be embedded in here.
Now, we can run node,
oops, node --version,
and you should see something like this,
a version greater than 8.
If you have a version older than 8,
we may run into some problems.
So make sure you have it up to date.
So the next thing you need is to
install a library called SQLite3.
This is because we have a database in
this project, it's in the DB folder,
and you're going to want to make
sure that you can read this, right?
It’s an embedded database, just treat it,
it’s a file basically that
has multiple tables in it.
You can, on OS X,
use Homebrew to install this,
and you should end up with this,
a recent version.
I don’t know which version is required for
what we’re working with today,
but nothing I'm doing here
is crazy compared to what I was doing
with SQLite five or six years ago.
So it should just work
right out of the box.
Looks like they got some upgrades, there's
a new version here that just got released.
We're not gonna install that because
I'm not going to tempt fate here.
But you can see I was using 3.16 before.
Apparently, I've been testing with
3.19 recently, and this just came out.
Any of those should work.
If you're using Windows,
go to the main read me for
this project,
there's a link you can go to, and
there's a package, like a Windows
Installer package you can install.
Just get the latest official release,
if you don't have it.
At the end, you should be able
to run SQLite3 --version,
[SOUND], and you should get
something reasonable out like this.
>> Mike North: So if you so choose,
you may use Yarn instead of npm,
this is an alternative package manager.
That can be installed with brew, they just
hit their 1.0 release, I think I saw that
1.01 already landed, but you should
be able to see something like this.
Yes?
>> Speaker 2: I got a couple of questions
in chat.
>> Mike North: Okay.
>> Speaker 2: Any reason to run code
inside as a primary?
>> Mike North: No,
we shouldn't be doing anything that
requires that beta test build.
>> Speaker 2: Okay, and then another one
was, guy uses VS Code a bit and have
it installed on a couple of computers.
On one control plus it works, but
on my other, that opens a new console
outside of my VS Code, any suggestions?
>> Mike North: So control,
control+backtick works, and on another it
opens a new console outside of VS code.
Yeah, I've never seen that before.
I'm happy to dig a little bit deeper and
see what may be going on there.
But for me, it's control+backtick, and you
can look, if that key button doesn't work
for you, look in the View tab, and
here's the integrate terminal option here.
If you look to the right,
you should see something there that should
correspond to the correct keystroke.
There's probably a setting, and
we can explore that when we get into
settings that might say like, well, I
don't wish to use the integrated terminal,
take me out into whatever my default
terminal application is outside of code.
All right, so once we've done that,
you should clone the project, and
if you're looking at slides on your
laptop, you've already done that.
It's the same project that these
files we're looking at are in.
You're gonna run Yarn to to install
all of the dependencies, sorry.
And then npm start should just work,
>> Mike North: That should
open up a new app on local host 3000.
>> Mike North: And
interesting, I've got a stray file
in there, let me just delete that.
>> Mike North: Okay, so you should see
webpack: Compiled successfully.
And then if we go to localhost:3000, you
should see something that looks like this.
There may be one last step
there that you'll have to do.
If you get an error about
like can't find the database,
you wanna make sure that
in your database folder,
just copy this master file,
master.sqlite to development.sqlite.
The point of this is I've given you
something that's been checked into
the repository,
that's sort of a clean start.
And if you run into a situation
where somehow we messed the data up,
you can just blow your development.sqlite
away and you can point to master.
Or you can recopied master and
create yourself a new database.
But in the end, you should have
something that looks like this.
Maybe without this little 8 up here,
that's my data in my database.
But certainly you should start seeing
images on the screen that look like this.
And that should indicate you started up.
>> Mike North: So
we're just gonna leave that running.
We'll close this here, it just closes
the panel, our terminal is still running.